>> WHEN IT'S OVER, I WANT PEOPLE
TO SAY, NOW, THERE WAS AN HONEST
PERSON.
>> POP'S BODY IS GONE.
I KNOW, BECAUSE I COUNTED OUT
HIS PULSE UNTIL HIS HEART FELL
SILENT, 5:15 P.M.
HIS TWO FAVORITE NUMBERS, 5 AND
15.
SO NOW HIS BAGGY, BROWN EYES,
SOLID GRIP OF SOFT, THICK
FINGERS, OAKIN' BODY, THEY'RE
ALL GONE, BUT WHAT WAS MOST
IMPORTANT ABOUT MY FATHER AND TO
HIM WAS PASSED ON.
PASSED ON, AS IN STILL EXISTS,
JUST IN A DIFFERENT WAY.
HIS SPIRIT PASSED ON TO HIS
CREATOR, THE SPIRIT OF HIS
MESSAGE ENDURES IN US.
TIMELESS AND TIMELY, A CALL TO
REMEMBER THAT IF ALL DO NOT
SHARE IN AMERICA'S SUCCESS,
THERE IS NO REAL SUCCESS.
>> QUESTION MAKE IT ALL THE WAY
WITH THE WHOLE FAMILY INTACT,
AND WE HAVE MORE THAN ONCE,
WAGON TRAIN AFTER WAGON TRAIN,
TO NEW FRONTIERS OF EDUCATION,
HOUSINGIN IPEACE, THE WHOLE FAM
ABOARD CONSTANTLY REACHING OUT
TO EX-END TEN AND ENLARGE THAT
FAMILY, ALL STRUGGLING TO CLAIM
THAT SMALL SHARE OF AMERICA.
>> Reporter: OUR
INTERCONNECTEDNESS, OUR
DIVERSITY AS AMERICA'S TRUE
STRENGTH.
THE VALUE FOUND IN IMMIGRANTS
LIKE OUR FAMILY DESPERATE TO
WORK, TO BE PART OF THE DREAM.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Reporter: TWO SPEECHES IN
EIGHT WEEKS WOULD DEFINE HIS
POLITICAL LIFE FOR MANY OF YOU,
KEATNOTE IN 1984 --
>> RONALD REAGAY ROD INTO THE '
ON A POLITICAL WHITE HORSE.
>> Reporter: HE TOOK ON RONALD
REAGAN'S SHINING CITY.
>> THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO SLEEP IN
THE CITY'S STREETS IN THE
GUTTER, WHERE THE GLITTER
DOESN'T SHOW.
>> Reporter: AND HIS TALK AT
NOTRE DAME, WHERE HE TOOK ON HIS
CHURCH'S NOTION OF A CATHOLIC
POLITICIAN.
>> WE KNOW THAT THE PRICE OF
SEEKING TO FORCE OUR BELIEF ON
OTHERS IS THAT THEY MIGHT
SOMEDAY FORCE THEIR BELIEF ON
US.
I PROTECT MY RIGHT TO BE A
CATHOLIC, BY PRESERVING YOUR
RIGHT TO BE ANYTHING ELSE YOU
CHOOSE.
>> Reporter: A MAN LIKE THE
CHALLENGE, BOTH RELIED ON HIS
CORE BELIEF -- WE ARE HERE TO
HELP AS MANY AS WE CAN IN THE
BEST WAY WE CAN, AND THAT MEANS
PROTECTING FREEDOM, ESPECIALLY
FREEDOM FROM OPPRESSION.
YOU WILL HEAR HIM CALLED HAMLET
ON THE HUDSON.
QUESTION.
IT'S A MEDIA PHRASE MORE THAN A
MATTER OF FACT.
POP DID NOT THINK HE SHOULD RUN
FOR PRESIDENT.
>> HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH MY
CHANCES.
IT HAS EVERYTHING TO DO WITH MY
JOB AS GOVERNOR AND I DON'T SEE
THAT I CAN DO BOTH.
THEREFORE, I WILL NOT PURSUE THE
PRESIDENCY.
>> Reporter: MANY COULD NOT OR
WOULD NOT ACCEPT THAT.
AND TRIED PUBLICLY AND PRIVATELY
TO PUSH HIM TO DO OTHERWISE.
FOR BETTER OR WORSE, THAT'S WHAT
SEPARATED MY FATHER FROM OTHER
POLITICIANS.
HE, IN FACT, DID NOT VACILLATE,
AND UNTIL THE DAY HE DIED, I
NEVER HEARD HIM REGRET THE
DECISION, PERIOD.
BUT THAT IS MERELY POLITICS,
WHICH CAN'T BE FORGOTTEN QUICKLY
ENOUGH.
WHAT REALLY MATTERS HAS
CERTAINLY BEEN PASSED ON, TO ME,
AND MY SINGS AND OUR KIDS AND
THAT WAS POP'S LOVE, A BIG BEAR
HEART ON YOUR HEART KIND OF
HOFF.
IT COULD BE A WEAPON AND A
SALVE.
>> CHRIS, LET ME TELL YOU,
CHRISTOPHER, YOU HAVE FOUND SO
MANY UNUSUAL WAYS TO HEAP NEW
EXPENSES ON THIS FAMILY.
YOU REALLY HAVE.
AND YOU DID IT NOT AFTER A
SWEATING EFFORT, HE'S DONE IT
NATURALLY.
>> WHO TO BE, HOW TO BE FROM THE
SIMPLE, A HANDSHAKE IS FIRM, A
TIE IS TIED IN A WINDSOR KNOT, A
MAN SHINES HIS OWN SHOES AND
DOES SO OFTEN.
HE CARRIES A HANKY, ONE FOR
OTHERS, ONE FOR HIMSELF.
HE WEARS A HAT, NOT A CAP,
UNLESS IT'S A CHEESECUTTER.
HE ALWAYS HAS CASH AND DOES NOT
GO DUTCH.
PASS FIRST, SHOOT SECOND.
PLAY HARD, AND THEN PLAY HARDER.
FROM THAT TO THE SUBLIME, ALL
THAT MATTERS IN LIFE IS DEVOTION
TO SOMETHING BIGGER THAN
YOURSELF -- FAMILY, THE LESS
FORTUNATE, TAKE UP FOR THEM
ALWAYS.
HIS PASSION FOR PURPOSE, LOVE
RECKLESSLY, FIGHT THE GOOD FIGHT
FIERCELY, OUTWORK EVERYONE.
>> ONE OF THE SIMPLE THINGS I
WANTED TO ACHIEVE IS I WANT TO
BE GOVERNOR, I WANT TO BE THE
HARDEST WORKING THERE EVER WAS.
>> Reporter: COMPETE HARD OR NOT
AT ALL.
>> SO FAR WE HAVEN'T LOST ALL
YEAR.
>> Reporter: AND NEVER AS A
FUNCTION OF THE CHANCE OF
SUCCESS.
>> THIS IS OUR FIRST GAME.
>> Reporter: AND FOR ALL THE
REQUIREMENTS ON AN INDIVIDUAL,
THE MOST IMPORTANT WAS A COMMAND
FOR THE COLLECTIVE.
COLLABORATIVE IN MAKING THIS
WORLD A BETTER PLACE.
>> WHAT IS OUR MISSION IN THIS
PLACE?
YOUR JOB IS TO MAKE IT AS GOOD
AS YOU CAN MAKE IT.
THAT'S ALL THERE IS.
THERE IS NO OTHER SIGNIFICANCE.
>> Reporter: NONE OF THAT COULD
EVER BE BURIED.
LIVING ON IN THE HEARTS AND
MINDS AND ACTIONS OF THOSE WHO
BEAR HIS NAME, WHO HEEDED HIS
CALL TO ACTION THEN AND NOW,
THAT ALL WILL PASS ON.
THE MAN HIMSELF IS GONE.
THE FATHER I WENT TO IN TIMES OF
DISTRESS IS NOT THERE.
THE TRUTH HURTS, POP WOULD SAY,
AND THIS TRUTH HURTS WORSE THAN
I IMAGINED.
BUT I ALSO KNOW WHAT POP WOULD
TELL ME TO DO.
WIPE MY FACE, LET MY KIDS SEE
THAT I LOVE THEM, BE THERE FOR
MY FAMILY, AND DO THE RIGHT
THING, AND I WILL, POP, JUST
LIKE YOU.
>> JUST KEEP GOING FORWARD AND
BELIEVE IN EVER MORE DEEPLY THAT
IT'S RIGHT TO GIVE TO PEOPLE AND
TO THE WORLD.